---
title: Death Penalty
author: Oliver Grace
date: 2001-09-11
categories: [Articles]
tags: [Death Penalty]
pin: False
---

<!-- more -->
In this article, I will be jumping off the edge of a cliff and diving head first into the thrilling yet chilling topic of the death penalty.  First off, what is the death penalty? Well, the death penalty is a criminal offence punishable by death - it is a very serious, yet uniquely interesting topic. 

As I have explained this is a punishment of the highest living order. However, this may come as a surprise to the number of countries with this law still in place. This question varies depending on the country, as some countries have a much stricter policy than others. However, in this circumstance, I shall talk about the United States and its policy on the death penalty. Yes, I am very aware that not all parts of America accept the death penalty as a law. However, based on the states that have the death penalty implemented and in good use the main factor to be considered for the death penalty would be if you have murdered someone with the full intention and in a very harsh manner. However, in most cases, it would take a murder spree for it to be seriously considered in your case. In the past, the death penalty was widely used in rape especially if it was a black defendant with white victims. Now it is a very rare occurrence that you get charged with the death penalty even if you rape multiple people.

In 2019 world population review stated that 93 countries still have the death penalty in place. I thought that the death penalty was rare but after seeing these stats I have changed my mind! This is very interesting as this shows that most of the world has stopped and finished using the death penalty and has moved past it while these 93 countries insist on still having it. Out of all the countries still, with the death penalties intact, no country has committed more deaths forced by the law than China. According to the BBC, China carried out over 1000 executions in 2019. However, they do cover up a lot more so many people believe that they commit a lot more than they say. These are all the released deaths it is highly likely China covered their tracks on certain deaths but to that as of right now is just a strong conspiracy. 

So how long does it take till you actually get executed on death row? If you don’t know what death row is pretty much where the convicted have been charged as guilty and have been enforced the death penalty, go as they wait for their time to come. I found a very interesting fact on how long they have to wait for the average wait on death row to execution is usually 16 years. By then they might’ve already died from other inmates or natural causes. However, if there are no appeals then the process could be as quick as 6 months. This for me was insane as waiting for that long just to get executed is pretty amazing. Most die of natural causes before they have been sentenced to the room where their life will end. 


To conclude, the death penalty is a very serious punishment for crime. There are many people who have been convicted of being guilty for a crime but eventually prove to be innocent. This is a big problem and in my opinion, they need to change the judicial system for the better. I personally believe that the death penalty should only be used on the rare occasions where a highly severe crime has been committed. To conclude, I hope I haven’t killed your interest in this topic.

