---
title: Deforestation 
author: Luca Dapas
date: 2021-12-10
categories: [Articles]
tags: [Deforestaion]
pin: False
---
Deforestation- Luca Dapas

<!-- more -->
We Need To Act On Deforestation

What is deforestation? What's happening to the Amazon rainforest? These are questions you may be pondering in your mind. As you witness on social media the terrorising situations that so many people and species alike are experiencing due to the selfish and cruel actions of some major brands, trying to make some extra dough. 

Imagine this: “You're reading your child a bedtime story and your son asks you what a chimpanzee is, you sadly reply and say, it's a type of ape that used to roam the earth but not anymore” This is the future that we are heading towards. Not only will we have no chimpanzees, but we will also lose many other species. Blue whales, orangutans, Bluefin tuna, red pandas and tigers are currently endangered. So if we don’t deal with this now, all these animals and more will be extinct. Over the decade from 2010 to 2020 the global annual forest loss was estimated by the UN FAO to be 10 million hectares. To put that into perspective that's over 800,000 Wellington Colleges, of forest loss. If we lose all our forests our global terrestrial biodiversity will be greatly reduced, with 80% of our global terrestrial biodiversity located in forests. Another key point was sustainable livelihoods. There are 1.6 billion people whose livelihoods are supported by healthy forests, with one billion of them among the world's poorest. Not only does deforestation largely affect our biodiversity, but it also affects many human lives.



Now after hearing that, you may be wondering, why is deforestation so bad? And what is causing it? Well, I'm about to tell you. According to LiveScience, there are many different causes of deforestation. These are things such as making room for construction, manufacturing, harvesting timber for fuel, farming and livestock. This is concerning because over 30% of the world is covered in forests but if these causes continue, that number will drop rapidly. But of these deforestation causes, the main driver of deforestation is agriculture. As said earlier there are many different drivers of deforestation but agriculture is the culprit for over 80% of the global forest loss. This is due to converting forests into different commodities including beef, palm oil, soy, cocoa, rubber, coffee, timber and many more.                                                                                                                        


Forestation is like the law, it seems irrelevant and pointless but without it, the consequences would be drastic. Greenpeace wrote an article about solutions to deforestation and they mainly focused on corporate action. As quoted from the article “If corporations have the ability to destroy the world’s forests, they also have the power to help save them”. To sum this quote up, a majority of deforestation is caused by big corporations. So if we can get alternative methods for these corporations to use, then the deforestation rate will decrease rapidly. To prove this is a major solution some huge international companies that have already changed their sourcing policies are businesses like Nestle and McDonald's. But Biofriendly planet (a website that discusses solutions to environmental problems) discussed some ways that you personally can make a difference during everyday life. The difference between having a thriving forest life and a barren wasteland is completely up to you. Some of these solutions include Simple things like recycling more, using eco-friendly products, eating sustainable foods and conserving energy and water. 

Deforestation shouldn’t just be something that we worry about, it’s something we can change for the better every day.

