---
title: Aston Martin 
author: Me
date: 2021-12-10
categories: [Article]
tags: [Cars, Aston Martin]
pin: False
---

<!-- more -->
jThe Aston Martin Valhalla is one of the most recent hypercars in development. It’s a mid-engined hybrid built car with the help of formula 1 technology. It is powered by a 4.0 litre twin-turbo V8 engine that can produce over 7200rpm (revolutions per minute). The Valhalla has been made too easy to drive, with space for luggage behind the seats, a centre console and a phone mount for the driver.

It can also be switched into an electric-only mode which can go up to 130 km/h with zero carbon emissions. Its top speed is 350 km/h and can do 0 to 100km/h in just 2.5 seconds with over 900 horsepower and more than 700 pounds of torque. The Valhalla weighs in at a light 1500kgs due to an abundance of carbon fibre monocoque in the chassis and body panels.

The new Valhalla is set to enter the market in 2023. The starting price is an estimated $1,800,000 AUD or approximately $2,000,000 NZD, but this price shouldn’t discourage you if you are considering it.

As previously mentioned, the Aston Martin Valhalla is made with the help of formula 1 technology, more specifically the Red Bull Racing Power-train division. This design uses KERS (Kinetic Energy Recovery System) which charges the battery when braking or when the car is stationary. 

The British-based car manufacturer, Aston Martin will be releasing the Valhalla in their new line of luxury hypercars, alongside the Valkyrie, Vantage, Speedster and Vanquish.
